All right let's dive into callback functions.
Let's define our objectives.
First we're going to define what callback functions are then we're also going to define higher order
functions
we'll learn to use a callback function to make our code more general.
And finally we'll create callback functions using anonymous functions.
A callback function is defined as a function that is passed into another function as a parameter and
then invoked by that of the function.
That's a lot to impact.
So let's look at an example.
As you can see in this example we have a callback function named callback when the other function higher
order function is invoked.
Callback is passed as a parameter inside of higher order function.
The parameter for our callback is named Fehn.
As you can see Fan is invoked inside of the higher order function which makes the Ethen parameter a
callback.
Let's take a look at this in the consul.
So here's our code we've got the function higher order and the function call back.
I'm going to invoke higher order and pass in callback and as you can see here we get the console log
about to call call back.
And then coming from callback from within the callback.
And finally callback has been invoked from here.
The last line higher function.
OK.
So we have to find a callback.
Now let's define higher order functions so a higher order function is a function that accepts a callback
as a parameter.
Looking back for example the function named higher order function is in fact a higher order function.
So we're passing in the callback here as a parameter to this function that we are invoking called higher
order
you maybe wondering at this point what are callbacks used for.
Well callbacks are actually a very common pattern in javascript and they come up in a lot of different
cases.
For example advanced Array methods which we're going to be going into detail later in this course about
use callbacks browser events such as click Submit Dom content loaded all except callbacks which will
be invoked when the event takes place Ajax requests which we will talk about more in detail very soon.
Also use callbacks and Leslee callbacks are very important to understand when we are working on re-act
later.
So it's very important to get a solid foundation now before we move on to more advanced topics.
OK let's look at a few examples.
Here's an example of some functions with a lot of code duplication.
All of them essentially take a message as a string and then perform some function on that message.
Let's try to refactor that using callbacks so that we can eliminate the duplication and make the code
more general.
The first thing we're going to do is make a function call send message and send message will be a higher
order function.
So the second parameter here will be a callback.
Now that we have our Send message function we can provide any callback that we like as the second parameter.
So first of all we're using console log to send the message then we're using alert to send the message.
And finally we're using confirm to show the message and we will also get back and answer.
OK let's look at another example of a callback function.
Here we have a higher order function called greed that takes a callback named formatter.
And inside of greed we are deciding how we want to format the name parameter based on the formatted
function.
So whatever format it returns is what will be the second half of this greeting string.
Now below that we created a function called uppercase name which will uppercase whatever name is passed
inside.
And then finally we invoke greet passing the name Tim and the callback uppercase name.
So what we'll get as a result is Hello karma.
Tim where Tim is all in upper case.
So this is the pattern that we've seen pretty often in all of the examples where we use a declared function
as the callback for the higher order function.
But a common pattern that you'll see in many javascript code bases is to use an anonymous function as
our callback rather than a function declaration.
So in this example here we've passed in an anonymous function in the invocation of grete.
So just like before were uppercase in the name.
But now we're not making a function declaration for that upper case we're just passing in the anonymous
function.
And below that you'll see another example of gry which also takes an anonymous function which rather
than uppercase is the name adds a lot of excitement to the name.
We're going to return ads exclamation marks.
All right we've covered all the basics of callbacks now in the next video we're going to move on to
a little bit more complicated example which is a for each method.
Essentially we're going to provide a callback that's invoked for each element in an array.